W-14813073 MQ failover Connector updates (#2477)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: anypoint-mq/4.x/modules/ROOT/pages/anypoint-mq-failover.adoc

= Using Cross-Region Failover

Anypoint MQ Connector for Mule 4 version 4.0.5 and later provides failover capability for standard queues.

This feature is not enabled by default.
Before using this feature, review xref:mq::mq-failover.adoc[].

[IMPORTANT]
When you enable failover for a queue and the primary region goes down,

> your data resides in a different region.

Reviewer: All the updates we made to 3.x docs need to be updated here as well..

Author: Yeah, I missed that one. Added now.

.. <<enable-failover-feature,Enable failover in your app.>>
.. (Optional) <<configure-check-frequency,Change the check frequencies>>. 

* In Anypoint MQ:
.. Create or modify a queue and xref:mq::mq-failover.adoc#enable-failover[enable failover on the queue].

[[enable-failover-feature]]
== Enable Failover in Your App

To enable the failover feature in your app, set the `cross.region.failover.feature.enabled` system property to `true`.
This property is set to `false` by default.

To set this application property in Runtime Manager:

. Sign in to Anypoint Platform and click *Runtime Manager* in the navigation menu.
. Deploy a new app or change the settings for a deployed app.
. On the *Properties* tab, specify values for the property:
+
image::mq::mq-set-properties-failover-enabled.png["Properties tab with failover properties specified"]

Alternatively, set the property in *Run Configurations* in Anypoint Studio.
For more information, see xref:mule-runtime::mule-app-properties-system.adoc[System Properties in Mule Apps].

[[configure-check-frequency]]
== Configure the Frequency of Fallback Queue Checks

By default, when the primary region is down, Anypoint MQ Connector checks:

> * Fallback queue once every five minutes (300,000 milliseconds)

Reviewer: once every five minutes for new messages

> By default, when the primary region is down, Anypoint MQ Connector checks:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, when the primary region is down, Anypoint MQ Connector checks the:
```

* Primary queue to see if the primary region is back up once per minute (60,000 milliseconds)

To change this behavior, set the following properties:

[%header,cols="3,42,15,15,15"]
|===
|Property | Description | Minimum Value | Maximum Value | Default Value
5+|`primary.region.status.check.interval.ms`

> ||How often the connector checks that the primary region is up when processing from the fallback region

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
||How often the connector checks the availability of the primary region when processing from the fallback region
```

|1 minute
(60,000 milliseconds)
|15 minutes
(900,000 milliseconds)
|1 minute
(60,000 milliseconds)
5+|`fallback.messages.check.interval.ms`

> ||How often the connector checks the fallback queue for any messages received

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
||How often the connector checks the fallback queue for received messages
```

|1 minute
(60,000 milliseconds)
|12 hours
(43.2 million milliseconds)
|5 minutes
(300,000 milliseconds)
|===

To set these application properties in Runtime Manager:

. Sign in to Anypoint Platform and click *Runtime Manager* in the navigation menu.
. Deploy a new app or change the settings for a deployed app.
. On the *Properties* tab, specify values for the following properties (in milliseconds):
+
image::mq::mq-set-properties-failover.png["Properties tab with failover properties specified"]

Alternatively, set these properties in *Run Configurations* in Anypoint Studio.
For more information, see xref:mule-runtime::mule-app-properties-system.adoc[System Properties in Mule Apps] 

[[check-interval]]
=== Check Interval Considerations

To determine how to set the application property values to fine-tune the check intervals: 

* When publishing to the fallback region during primary region downtime, the Publish operation of Anypoint MQ Connector checks if the primary region is back up once per minute by default.
+

> If a flow triggers the Publish operation less frequently than the once per minute, the connector checks to see if primary region is back up every time the operation is triggered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a flow triggers the Publish operation less frequently than once per minute, the connector checks to see if the primary region is back up every time the operation is triggered.
```

+
To fine-tune this behavior, set the value of `primary.region.status.check.interval.ms` to be greater than the frequency at which your flow triggers the Publish operation.

* When a flow triggers the Consumer or Subscriber operation of Anypoint MQ Connector, the connector checks the fallback queue (every five minutes by default) for new messages before checking the primary queue.
+
If a flow triggers the Consumer or Subscriber operation less frequently than every five minutes, the connector first checks the fallback queue for new messages before consuming from the primary queue.
+
To reduce the frequency of checking the fallback queue, set the value of `fallback.messages.check.interval.ms` to be greater than the frequency at which your flow triggers the Consumer or Subscriber operation.
+

> NOTE: Setting this property to a large value might result in out-of-order messages because messages in the fallback queue are not processed as frequently.

Reviewer 2: large value or high?
